add collection / data storage (#570)
near/docs: docs/concepts/data-collections.md

---
id: data-storage
title: Data Storage / Collections
sidebar_label: Data Storage / Collections
---

## Overview

> All data stored on the NEAR blockchain is done in key / value pairs. There are several collection methods in the SDKs we've created that will help you store your data on chain.
>
> - [`near-sdk-as`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as) for [AssemblyScript](https://www.assemblyscript.org/) smart contracts
> - [`near-sdk-rs`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-rs) for [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) smart contracts

---

## AssemblyScript Collection Types

> | Type                                                                           | Iterable | Clear all values | Preserves order |

Reviewer: Should mean order of keys.  Which is insertion order in the case of the unordered map and sorted order in terms of the trees.

Author: updated :)

```ts
vector.push(value);
vector.pop(value);
vector.length;
```

[ [SDK source](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/collections/persistentVector.ts) ]

---

### `PersistentSet`

> Built on top of the [`Storage`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/storage.ts) class, this implements a persistent set without iterators.
>
> - is not iterable
> - more efficient in the number of reads and writes

[ [SDK source](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/collections/persistentSet.ts) ]

---

### `PersistentMap`

> Implements a map built on top of the [`Storage`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/storage.ts).

- To create:

```ts
import { PersistentMap } from "near-sdk-as";
let map = new PersistentMap<string, string>("pmap"); // choose a unique prefix per collection
```

- To use:

```ts
map.set(key, value);
map.getSome(key);
```

**Note:** The Map doesn't store keys, so if you need to retrieve them, include keys in the values.

[ [SDK source](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/collections/persistentMap.ts) ]

---

### `PersistentUnorderedMap`

> > Implements an unordered map built on top of the [`Storage`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/storage.ts) class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Implements an unordered map built on top of the [`PersistentMap`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/collections/persistentMap.ts) class and a [`PersistentVector`](https://github.com/near/near-sdk-as/blob/master/sdk-core/assembly/collections/persistentVector.ts), which stores the keys of the map.  These keys are initially in the order they are inserted, however, a deleted key is swapped with the last key.
```
